We'll now talk about part 3
of the image crawler example.
This will focus on
the implementation
of the countImagesAsync
method, which
will demonstrate other
interesting completable future
API calls.
This helper method creates
several lambda variables
in order to simplify
its implementation.
Basically, this
implementation, which
we'll talk about
in just a moment
is an implementation of
the control flow shown
in this data flow diagram.
We had talked about this
much earlier in the course.
And now it's finally time
to look at this in detail.
But let me just review
the data flow diagram
and show the flow of control.
So we have four tasks
in this implementation.
Task 1 will get the start
page asynchronously.
Task 2 and task 3 will
then run in parallel
when task 1 is finished.
Task 2 will count the images
on the page asynchronously.
And task 3 will count the
images of all pages reachable
from this page asynchronously.
So we're basically going
to traverse the hyperlinks
and count the number of images
that are available there
or available through them.
As I said before, both of these
tasks can run at the same time.
And when both of
these tasks finish,
then we will combine
the results to get
the final sum of all
the images on this page
and all the images
reachable from this page.
So you can see, this
is a good example
of basically starting
something asynchronously,
forking off to do two
things in parallel.
And then we'll see a bunch
of chained operations there,
and then finally joining the
control flow back together
again in order to
get the final count.
And all of this stuff
takes place asynchronously.
So it's very cool.
Here's the actual source code.
This is the code that
starts off task 1.
We're going to call a helper
method called getStartPage,
which will asynchronously
get the page or the contents
of the page at the given
root URI or the page URI.
Here is the getStartPage
implementation.
And you can see what it does
is it takes this pageUri,
and it uses the
supplyAsync method
to find CompletableFuture
to register an action that
will then run asynchronously
in a background
thread in the default
common fork joint pool.
The particular action that
we're going to invoke here
will go ahead and use a little
wrapper around the open source
Java jsoup library.
jsoup is a library that
can be used to parse HTML.
And it works both
for web content,
things reachable
over the network,
as well as local file content.
And I wrote a little
wrapper to hide
whether we're going to be
crawling through the web
or crawling through
the local file system,
just to make it easier to
write one piece of code that
worked independent of where
the actual recursive directory
hierarchy resides.
And just for fun I
called this JSuper.
It had to be a pun on jsoup.
So we get the JSuper wrapper.
And then we call
the getPage method,
which passes in the pageUri.
and that will go ahead
and download that page.
Now the getPage
method is synchronous
and therefore we have to wrap
this up in an asynchronous call
to avoid blocking the code.
jsoup doesn't know about
completable futures,
it's just an
asynchronous-- sorry,
it's just a synchronous library
for downloading and parsing
and processing HTML pages.
What gets returned here
is a CompletableFuture
to a document, which will be
available once the page has
finished downloading.
So what we get back from
StartPage will be a PageFuture,
so it's a CompletableFuture
to the document.
Document is another jsoup
data structure which basically
contains the HTML content.
So then we use pageF.
And this CompletableFuture
will be used
to launch the next two tasks.
So we're going to be able to run
task 2 and task 3 in parallel.
But they don't start
running until pageF
completes its downloading.
So as you can see what's
going to happen here
is we're going to use task 2
to get the images in the page.
And we're going to use task 3
to crawl the links in the page.
And those two tasks
will run asynchronously
as soon as the PageFuture is
completed, after the page is
finished downloading.
Let's take a look
first at task 2.
Task 2 is going to go ahead and
use several completion stage
methods from the
CompletableFuture framework
to asynchronously count the
number of images on a page
and return a future
to that count.
And it's going to
do this by calling
the getImagesInPage
method in the context
of the thenApplyAsync
completion stage method.
So if you recall, thenApplyAsync
will run this action
in a background thread.
So let's go take a look at
how getImagesInPage works.
It's a very straightforward
little wrapper function.
And it simply
synchronously returns
a collection of image
source URLs in this page.
And we do this by
calling the select method
on the document object given the
name phrase and the parameter.
And we select anything on that
page that has the img tag.
And under the hood,
of course, this
is using the jsoup HTML
parsing library, which
operates synchronously,
hence the need
to have this method
called via thenApplyAsync.
thenApplyAsync will set
the wheels in motion.
It returns a CompletableFuture.
When we have figured out
all the images in the page,
that comes back as you can
see as an elements object.
An elements object is
basically a collection.
And so when
getImagesInPage completes,
we then apply an action that
gets the size of the elements
list and that will be returned
in a CompletableFuture.
Now the reason we use
thenApply here as opposed
to thenApplyAsync
is because it's
going to be very fast to return
the size of that collection.
In contrast, this call
may have taken a while
to run because it has
to parse the HTML code.
So that's why we ran it via
thenApplyAsync, so it wouldn't
block the calling thread.
What we get back from thenApply
is a CompletableFuture
to a count of the number
of images on the page.
Let's now take a look at task 3.
Task 3 will use the
thenComposeAsync method
to count the number of
images in links on this page
and it will return a
future to this count.
And this is a very nice example
of thenComposeAsync for reasons
we'll see in just a moment.
So that the actual
method that's called here
is called crawlLinksInPage.
And this method returns
a CompletableFuture
to the number of
image source URLs
that are accessible
via links in this page.
So now we're really going to
do the recursive crawling.
And because crawlLinksInPage
returns a CompletableFuture
and then thenComposeAsync
returns CompletableFuture,
we wrap things up in
thenComposeAsync to make
sure we don't end up with
nested CompletableFutures.
So if we were to
call some call here,
we might end it
with nested calls.
But we use thenCompose in order
to flatten the value return
by crawlLinksInPage.
For example, if we
used thenComposeAsync,
we would have nested
CompletableFutures
to integers, which
would not be good.